docs(weekly): add this week in databend 102 (#12114)
datafuselabs/databend: website/blog/2023-07-16-databend-weekly-102.md

---
title: "This Week in Databend #102"
date: 2023-07-16
slug: 2023-07-16-databend-weekly
cover_url: 'weekly/weekly-102.png'
image: 'weekly/weekly-102.png'
tags: [weekly]
description: "Stay up to date with the latest weekly developments on Databend!"
contributors:
  - name: ariesdevil
  - name: b41sh
  - name: BohuTANG
  - name: Chasen-Zhang
  - name: dantengsky
  - name: Dousir9
  - name: everpcpc
  - name: flaneur2020
  - name: JackTan25
  - name: lichuang
  - name: PsiACE
  - name: RinChanNOWWW
  - name: SkyFan2002
  - name: soyeric128
  - name: sundy-li
  - name: TCeason
  - name: xudong963
  - name: youngsofun
  - name: zhang2014
  - name: zhyass
authors:
  - name: PsiACE
    url: https://github.com/psiace
    image_url: https://github.com/psiace.png
---

[Databend](https://github.com/datafuselabs/databend) is a modern cloud data warehouse, serving your massive-scale analytics needs at low cost and complexity. Open source alternative to Snowflake. Also available in the cloud: <https://app.databend.com> .

## What's On In Databend

Stay connected with the latest news about Databend.

> ### Add Bloom Index to the Specified Column

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Creating Bloom Indexes for Specified Columns
```

> Creating a bloom index consumes a lot of CPU resources. For wide tables where only a few columns may require point queries or data ingestion performance is more important, creating bloom indexes for all columns may not be a good idea.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating bloom indexes consumes a significant amount of CPU resources. For wide tables, where only a few columns may require point queries or data ingestion performance is more important, creating bloom indexes for all columns may not be a good idea.
```

> Databend [Fuse Engine](https://databend.rs/doc/sql-reference/table-engines/fuse) added support for the `bloom_index_columns` option, which means you can add bloom indexes to specified columns as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `bloom_index_columns` option was introduced to the Databend [Fuse Engine](https://databend.rs/doc/sql-reference/table-engines/fuse), allowing you to which columns you want to create bloom indexes for.
```

> To create table with bloom index:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a table with bloom indexes:
```

```SQL
CREATE TABLE table_name (
  column_name1 column_type1,
  column_name2 column_type2,
  ...
) ... bloom_index_columns='columnName1[, ...]'.
```

> To create or modify bloom index for a existing table:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create or modify bloom indexes for an existing table:
```

> <small><i>The existing Bloom index options will be replaced by the new options, it does not create Bloom filters for existing data.</i></small>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<small><i>After modifying the Bloom index options, Databend will not create indexes for existing data. The changes will only affect the subsequent data.</i></small>
```

Reviewer: @zhyass Can you help review if the description above is correct?

```SQL
ALTER TABLE <db.table_name> SET OPTIONS(bloom_index_columns='columnName1[, ...]');
```

> To disable the bloom index:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To disable the bloom indexing:
```

```SQL
ALTER TABLE <db.table_name> SET OPTIONS(bloom_index_columns='');
```

If you are interested in learning more, please check out the resources listed below.

- [PR #12048 | feat: support specify bloom index columns](https://github.com/datafuselabs/databend/pull/12048)

> ### Understand SQL Conformance

Reviewer: 这些标题最好还是用Vt + ing

Author: I will pay attention in the future.

> ### Understand SQL Conformance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Understanding SQL Conformance
```

Databend aims to conform to the SQL standard, with particular support for ISO/IEC 9075:2011, also known as SQL:2011. Databend incorporates many features required by the SQL standard, often with slight differences in syntax or function.

> We have added a summary about the level of conformity of Databend to the SQL:2011 standard, hoping it can help you further understand Databend's SQL Conformance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have summarized the level of conformity of Databend to the SQL:2011 standard, hoping it can help you further understand Databend's SQL Conformance.
```

If you are interested in learning more, please check out the resources listed below.

- [Docs | SQL Conformance](/doc/sql-reference/ansi-sql)

## Code Corner

Discover some fascinating code snippets or projects that showcase our work or learning journey.

> ### Understand Databend Recluster Pipeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Understanding Databend Recluster Pipeline
```

┌──────────┐     ┌───────────────┐     ┌─────────┐    │                                        │
│FuseSource├────►│CompoundBlockOp├────►│SortMerge├────┘                                        │
└──────────┘     └───────────────┘     └─────────┘                                             │
┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
│         ┌──────────────┐
│    ┌───►│SerializeBlock├───┐
│    │    └──────────────┘   │
│    │    ┌──────────────┐   │    ┌─────────┐    ┌────────────────┐     ┌─────────────────┐     ┌──────────┐
└───►│───►│SerializeBlock├───┤───►│Resize(1)├───►│SerializeSegment├────►│TableMutationAggr├────►│CommitSink│
     │    └──────────────┘   │    └─────────┘    └────────────────┘     └─────────────────┘     └──────────┘
     │    ┌──────────────┐   │
     └───►│SerializeBlock├───┘
```

If you are interested in learning more, please check out the resources listed below:

- [feat(storage): improve optimize and recluster](https://github.com/datafuselabs/databend/pull/11850)

## Highlights

We have also made these improvements to Databend that we hope you will find helpful:

> - Added support for distributed copy into. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added support for distributed COPY INTO. 
```

- Read document [Docs | ATTACH TABLE](https://databend.rs/doc/sql-commands/ddl/table/attach-table) to learn how to attach an existing table to another one.
- Read documents [Docs | Deepnote](/doc/integrations/deepnote) and [Docs | MindsDB](/doc/integrations/mindsdb) to learn how Databend can better collaborate with your data science projects.
- Read documents [Docs | Window Functions](/doc/sql-functions/window-functions/) and [Docs | Bitmap Functions](/doc/sql-functions/bitmap-functions/) to fully understand the BITMAP and window functions supported by Databend.

## What's Up Next

We're always open to cutting-edge technologies and innovative ideas. You're more than welcome to join the community and bring them to Databend.

### Accelerate CTE through Materialization

> Inlining Common Table Expression (CTE) is generally a good idea, but if the CTE is particularly heavy, such as in TPCH Q15, the cost can be prohibitively expensive. In these cases, it's better to introduce materialization for the expensive CTE instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inlining Common Table Expression (CTE) is a good idea, but if the CTE is particularly heavy, such as in TPCH Q15, the cost can be prohibitively expensive. In this case, it's better to introduce materialization for the expensive CTE.
```
